
Timer output compare mode
To control an output waveform, or to indicate when a period of time has elapsed, the timer is used in one of the following output compare modes. The main difference between these modes is the output signal waveform.
• Output compare timing: The comparison between the output compare register CCRx
and the counter CNT has no effect on the outputs. This mode is used to generate a
timing base.
• Output compare active: Set the channel output to active level on match. The OCxRef
signal is forced high when the counter (CNT) matches the capture/compare register
(CCRx).
• Output compare inactive: Set channel to inactive level on match. The OCxRef signal
is forced low when the counter (CNT) matches the capture/compare register (CCRx).
• Output compare toggle: OCxRef toggles when the counter (CNT) matches the
capture/compare register (CCRx).
• Output compare forced active/inactive: OCREF is forced high (active mode) or low
(inactive mode) independently from counter value.
To configure the timer in one of these modes:
1.Select the clock source.
2. Write the desired data in the ARR and CCRx registers.
3. Configure the output mode:
a) Select the output compare mode: timing / active / inactive / toggle.
b) In case of active, inactive and toggle modes, select the polarity by writing CCxP in
CCER register.
c) Disable the preload feature for CCx by writing OCxPE in CCMRx register.
d) Enable the capture / compare output by writing CCxE in CCMRx register.
4. Enable the counter by setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.
5. Set the CCxIE / CCxDE bit if an interrupt / DMA request is to be generated.

Output compare mode:
This function is used to control an output waveform or indicating when a period of time has
elapsed.
When a match is found between the capture/compare register and the counter, the output
compare function:
• Assigns the corresponding output pin to a programmable value defined by the output
compare mode (OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register) and the output polarity (CCxP
bit in the TIMx_CCER register). The output pin can keep its level (OCXM=000), be set
active (OCxM=001), be set inactive (OCxM=010) or can toggle (OCxM=011) on match.
• Sets a flag in the interrupt status register (CCxIF bit in the TIMx_SR register).
• Generates an interrupt if the corresponding interrupt mask is set (CCXIE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register).
• Sends a DMA request if the corresponding enable bit is set (CCxDE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, CCDS bit in the TIMx_CR2 register for the DMA request
selection).
The TIMx_CCRx registers can be programmed with or without preload registers using the
OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register.
In output compare mode, the update event UEV has no effect on OCxREF and OCx output.
The timing resolution is one count of the counter. Output compare mode can also be used to
output a single pulse (in One Pulse mode).

Procedure:
1. Select the counter clock (internal, external, prescaler).
2. Write the desired data in the TIMx_ARR and TIMx_CCRx registers.
3. Set the CCxIE bit if an interrupt request is to be generated.
4. Select the output mode. For example:
– Write OCxM = 011 to toggle OCx output pin when CNT matches CCRx
– Write OCxPE = 0 to disable preload register
– Write CCxP = 0 to select active high polarity
– Write CCxE = 1 to enable the output
5. Enable the counter by setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.

